so who are the houthis they began in the
'90s as a moderate theological movement
of the zis that say Shia minority group
fighting corruption was one of their
main aims the 2003 US invasion of Iraq
was a turning point analysts believe the
war transformed the houthis into a
resistance group with deep anti-American
sentiments in 2015 houthi Fighters
seized Yemen's Capital Sona that
triggered more than nine years of war
between the Saudi Le Coalition which
backs the internationally recognized
government and the houthis supported by
Iran on October the 31st the houthis
entered the war on Gaza firing drones
and missiles at Israel and earlier the
earlier this month the houi said they
would Target All Ships heading towards
Israel we joined Now by Hussein Al bukti
political analyst aligned with the houi
movement and he's joining us live from
saana very good to have you with us Mr
bukti what's your response to this
International task force are the houis
worried about attacks by the US and its
allies no I'm actually they are not
worried at all because when they have
taken the decision to Target Israeli
ship or Israeli linked ship or any ship
from any country going to the any port
of Israel uh they will aware that the
United State or Israel might take an
action and they did their action because
uh uh as they say it is in solidarity
and it is actually an obligation uh uh
to do so that's why as well if you see
the alliance that the United stat now
has formed Yemen has been under attack
and blade for almost nine years and many
country in this in this Alliance uh they
were uh fully supporting the Saudi uh
backed forces and at the end what
happened German Army has become stronger
they had they had actually defeated
Saudi Arabia to reach it its goal that's
why I'm sure as Muhammad Abdus Salam
today had a statement few hour ago he
said we will continue uh uh our
operation against any ship uh as they
declared before uh unless the food and
medicine will be allowed into Gaza and
they they are well aware that the United
States might attack Yemen but they have
said any country that will be involved
in attacking Yemen their ships and oil
tank and as well it this country itself
it will be harmed and it will be
attacked and I'm I'm thinking that
United States might
forcing the Saudi Arabia and United Arab
emirat actually to break the truce that
has been you worried that they might do
that the Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia and
the United Arab Emirates are not part of
this task force are you worried that
they will join the task force what does
that mean for peace between Saudis and
the
houis I mean uh they were in direct war
against Yemen and they couldn't do
anything and when they actually signed
this agreement they were forced uh
because of the attack against Saudi
Arabia and United Arab Emirates we
remember that this truce was in Yemen
was actually announced after the major
attack against aramu facility in in in
jeda that's why Saudi Arabia and United
States at this point I don't think they
want Yemen to Target the oil
infrastructure because as you mentioned
in your report that the now the oil
prices and gas prices has increased and
I believe this is actually uh why Yemen
have done this latest action because
they know that you can only hurt the
West in their in their pocket and
especially as well Israel by targeting
the ship has almost closed elot elot
Port many of the ships that have been
targeted have said that they have no
links to Israel how are the houthis
choosing their
targets uh I mean in any ship that come
under Target it have a link to Israel
it's not only about being owned by
Israel but maybe as example in cargo
ship uh which have thousands of
containers on them they have a stop in
their schedule in to stop in in some of
the port of of Israel to deliver some of
these uh uh containers and some of the
ship actually they try as well to switch
uh their GBS and they don't actually uh
reply to Yemen request for them uh to to
stop that's why any ship that have link
it will be uh targeted and we remember
as an example the Galaxy leader uh that
was taken by yenes Israeli has announced
and Netanyahu they said it have nothing
to do with Israel and this was actually
all a lie if those ship actually have
nothing to do with Israel why Israel now
is crying out loud why they are asking
United State and Germany to act uh this
mean that they are really affected and
those ship actually they are have some
kind of uh ties or some stops that will
be in in Israel and I just want mention
Muhammad Ali he a member of the Supreme
Court
in in s he has sent as well the same
warning he said that the attack will
continue and that the United States they
will F uh uh I mean bear for
responsibility for any expansion of the
war and countries who will be involved
in attacking Yemen they will be harmed
really really badly that is Hussein
alati political analyst aligned with the
houthi movement thank you for your time